[ZT] DEX notifications (#14391)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/notifications.md

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Notifications
weight: 3
---

# DEX notifications

Administrators can receive alerts when Cloudflare detects connectivity issues with the WARP client or degraded application performance. Notifications can be delivered via email, webhook, and third-party services.

## Manage notifications

DEX notifications are configured on the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/). For more information, refer to [Create a notification](/notifications/get-started/#create-a-notification).

## Available notifications

> ---placeholder for notification dropdowns---

Author: Hey @patriciasantaana, how do we add the Notification dropdowns to this page?

## ​​Alert logic

### Z-score

Cloudflare uses a z-score to detect traffic spikes or drops. A [z-score](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_score) is the number of standard deviations the current value is to the mean. We calculate the mean and standard deviation by comparing the current five minutes to the past four hours. This is measured every five minutes.

To trigger an alert, the z-score value must be above 3.5 or less than -3.5, and the number of data points within the four-hour time period must exceed 200.

### SLO

> A service-level objective (SLO) is defined as (x / y) * 100 where x = the number of good events and y = the number of valid events for a given time period. When you set an SLO value, Cloudflare determines the rate at which bad events are allowed to occur over time, known as the burn rate. We use the multi-window, multi-burn rate approach described in [Section 6 of Alerting on SLOs](https://sre.google/workbook/alerting-on-slos/) to alert when bad events are occurring more frequently than the allowed burn rate. We look at both a short time period (five minutes) and a long time period (one hour) -- this ensures that you are quickly alerted when an outage is detected within a short window, while simultaneously preventing too many false positives since the long window must also be triggered.

Author: @renahlee does this new SLO description make sense?

Reviewer: Responded [here](https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-docs/pull/14391/files/0a6e71a95458800e83ba0d225f223bd025376b1d#r1591665698) ❤️

> A service-level objective (SLO) is defined as (x / y) * 100 where x = the number of good events and y = the number of valid events for a given time period. When you set an SLO value, Cloudflare determines the rate at which bad events are allowed to occur over time, known as the burn rate. We use the multi-window, multi-burn rate approach described in [Section 6 of Alerting on SLOs](https://sre.google/workbook/alerting-on-slos/) to alert when bad events are occurring more frequently than the allowed burn rate. We look at both a short time period (five minutes) and a long time period (one hour) -- this ensures that you are quickly alerted when an outage is detected within a short window, while simultaneously preventing too many false positives since the long window must also be triggered.

Reviewer: Big improvement! ❤️  I added a few more revisions:

```suggestion
A service-level objective (SLO) is defined as (x / y) * 100 where x = the number of good events and y = the number of valid events for a given time period. Cloudflare follows the multi-window approach described in [Alerting on SLOs](https://sre.google/workbook/alerting-on-slos/) and works backwards to determine the rate at which errors are allowed to occur over time until the error budget is exhausted. We use five minutes as the short window value and one hour as the long window value. This ensures you are quickly alerted when an SLO is violated while preventing too many false positives.
```

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Notifications
weight: 3
---

# DEX notifications

> Administrators can receive alerts when end users experience connectivity issues with the WARP client. Notifications can be delivered via email, webhook, and third-party services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Administrators can receive alerts when Cloudflare detects connectivity issues with the WARP client or degraded application performance. Notifications can be delivered via email, webhook, and third-party services.
```

## Manage notifications

DEX notifications are configured on the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/). For more information, refer to [Create a notification](/notifications/get-started/#create-a-notification).

## Available notifications

### Device connectivity anomaly

> Receive an alert when there is a significant increase or decrease in the number of devices connected to WARP.

Reviewer: Apologies - we had additional verbiage changes after a review with Alexa. Also minor nit (s/alert/notification):

```suggestion
Receive a notification when Cloudflare detects a spike or drop in the number of devices connected to WARP.
```

For information on the alert logic, refer to [Z-score](#z-score).

### DEX test latency

> Receive an alert when there is a significant increase or decrease in application latency, as measured by the HTTP test [Resource Fetch time](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/tests/http/#test-results) or Traceroute test [Round trip time](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/tests/traceroute/#test-results).

Author: ```suggestion
Receive an alert when there is a significant increase or decrease in application latency, as measured by the HTTP test [Resource Fetch time](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/tests/http/#test-results) or Traceroute test [Round trip time](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/tests/traceroute/#test-results). We recommend setting your test frequency to `5 min` to ensure that you have enough data points to trigger an alert.
```

Author: Should we add this recommendation to ensure that we hit the "200 event" threshold?

For information on the alert logic, refer to [Z-score](#z-score).

### DEX test low availability

Receive an alert when the percentage of successful HTTP or traceroute requests to an application drops below the selected threshold.

For information on the alert logic, refer to [SLO](#slo).

## ​​Alert logic

> ### Z-score

Author: Info is based on https://developers.cloudflare.com/notifications/reference/traffic-alerts/#traffic-anomalies

Cloudflare uses a z-score to detect traffic spikes or drops. A [z-score](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_score) is the number of standard deviations the current value is to the mean. We calculate the mean and standard deviation by comparing the current five minutes to the past four hours. This is measured every five minutes.

To trigger an alert, the z-score value must be above 3.5 or less than -3.5, and the number of data points within the four-hour time period must exceed 200.

### SLO

The [service-level objective (SLO)](https://sre.google/workbook/alerting-on-slos/) is defined as (x / y) * 100 where x = the number of good events and y = the number of valid events for a given time period.

> Cloudflare computes the SLO over both a short time period (five minutes) and a long time period (one hour). This ensures that you are quickly alerted when an outage is detected within a short window, while simultaneously preventing too many false positives since the long window must also be triggered.

Reviewer: Bit hard to strike a balance here re: how many details we should share.

The SLO definition provided by Google does provide a concept of "burn rate" (rate at which you burn through your error budget) and mentions multi-window SLO calculation (short and long window) further down as buffers to alert noisiness.

Given you are the content expert, I defer to you on how to move forward here 🙏
